CHARLES C. COONEY

Charles C. Cooney died at his home in this city Saturday after an illness of several weeks, aged 77 years, 10 months, and nine days.
Mr. Cooney was one of our oldest and most respected citizens. He came to this city in 1870 and soon after, established a carriage and wagon factory, later adding a blacksmith shop, foundry, and machine shop. In the early days most of the wagons and carriages used in this section were made by Mr. Cooney, and it is said their durability far surpassed that of the vehicles of these later years. His first factory was a frame building near, where John Dowd's house now stands. His business grew so rapidly he had to have larger quarters, and he built the large stone building which is now occupied by his son as a blacksmith and wagon shop.
Mr. Cooney continued the business until a few years ago when he retired because of advancing age.
Mr. Cooney always took an active interest in public affairs and was a public spirited man. He did his full part to build up this section of the country.
Mr. Cooney was born in County Claire, Ireland, February 4, 1838. He came to America, with his parents in 1848 and located in Pittsburgh, Pa. He learned his trade of wagon and carriage maker in Meadeville, Pa.
On August 15, 1862, he enlisted in Co. K, 150th Pennsylvania Volunteers under Capt. Thos. Getchel. This company was distinguished in having been chosen as the personal guard of President Lincoln during part of the war. Mr. Cooney served in the army until June 15, 1865.
He came to Topeka, Kansas in 1867 and to Osage Mission in 1870. He was united in marriage to Lucretia M. Davis, April 27, 1974. Ten children blessed their home, six of whom survive him. They are Edward Cooney, of Kansas City; Sister M. Bassilla, of St. Joseph's academy, El Paso, Texas, C. J. Roy, Arthur and Miss Agnes Cooney of St. Paul. Mrs. Cooney died April 30, 1913.
The funeral services were held at St. Francis church Monday morning at a Requium High Mass. Interment was made in the family lot in the Catholic cemetery. The bereaved relatives have the sympathy of everyone.
