GEORGE ERVIN BUTIN

After an affliction for about a year of paralysis, which steadily increased. In extent and effect from the start G. E. Butin, died very suddenly from a stroke of the disease last Saturday forenoon, April 18, at his home in Fredonia, in the presence of two physicians who were seeking to help his condition. While his family were aware that there was little or no prospect for his restoration to his former health, they were not prepared for the shock which his almost instantaneous death produced.
George Ervin Butin was born in Chillicothe, Wapello co., Iowa, October 9, 1845, and at his death was aged 57 years, 6 months and 9 days. He received such schooling as the common schools of his native county afforded. On January 7, 1863, when but little past seventeen years of age he enlisted in the Seventh Iowa Cavalry regiment, serving three years and four months, and was mustered out with the rank of lieutenant. The regiment saw service on the Western frontier in Indian fighting. While in the army Mr. Butin sustained an injury in the leg which crippled him, and April 10, 1888, the limb was amputated above the knee. In 1872 he moved from Iowa to Fredonia, engaging in the drug business with his elder brother, C. J. Butin, and they have since been continuously associated in that trade, being the oldest business firm in the city.
In November, 1873, G. E. Butin was elected county clerk of Wilson co. and in 1875 was reelected, filling the office and personally discharging its duties for four years.
May 12, 1875, Mr. Butin was married to Miss Josephine Hull at Chillicothe, Iowa, and she, with three sons and three daughters, survives him. In his death the bereaved family have lost a husband and father whose devotion, love and kindness for and interest in their welfare never relaxed. The city has lost one of its earliest settlers and an upright business man; a citizen whose fidelity to law and justice, to the town's best interests, to the rights and well-being of neighbors and friends, have been steadfast, every day and with every breath, as he has consistently and practically exemplified in thirty-one years of active, open, honest, sincere and virtuous life before and in contact with all men in this community. Frank, straightforward, incapable of dishonesty, deceit or dissembling, G. E. Butin's honored name for integrity, truth and principle was such that his immediate family and relatives should cherish it as a priceless legacy and realize from consolation in the hour of their sorrow.
The funeral was held Monday afternoon from the family residence and was attended by a large gathering of old soldiers, friends and neighbors. Brief services were held at the home by Rev. Chaffee, after which the casket was taken in charge by Phil Harvey Post, G. A. R., of which the deceased was a member, and burial was made according to the ritual thereof in the city cemetery.
The relatives from abroad who were present at the funeral were John S. Butin of Enid, Ok., a brother; Mrs. H. A. Jenner of Kansas City, Mo., and Miss Vina Butin of Chillicothe, Iowa, sisters; Frank Butin, of Russell, Kan., a son, and Eugene Park, from Emporia, a nephew. Chas. Butin, the eldest son, had arrived from Lawrence, Kan., two days previous to his father's death. The other son and the three daughters of Mr. Butin were at home when he passed away.
