ALVA CLARK

The following is a history of the life of the late, Judge Alva Clark: 
Alva Clark was born in Vinton county, Ohio, December 8, 1841; departed this life August 31, 1912, age 70 years, eight months and 23 days. He was reared to manhood on a farm in the Buckeye state. Enlisted in Co. I, 92 Ohio infantry August 9, 1862, and went to the front as private. He served in Virginia under General Cox until January 1863 after which General Rosecrans. He participated in the engagements of Fort Donaldson and Nashville. During his three years service he also took part in the following battles, among others of lesser note: Hoover Gap, Chickamauga, Mission Ridge, Buzzard's Roost, Reseca, Kingston, Big Shanty, Kenesaw Mountain, Chattahoochie River, Atlanta, Jonesboro, Savannah, Bentonville, and also witnessed the surrender of General Johnson. He accompanied General Sherman on his famous march to the sea, after which he went to Washington, D. C. and took part in the grand review. He was never wounded, nor at any time captured by the confederates, and was always able to report for duty, excepting for four days during which he was in the hospital. 
On January 31, 1867, he was united in marriage to Sarah A. Tom. They are the parents of eleven children, eight of whom are living. His wife survives him and the living children are: L. H. Clark, St. Paul; O. L. Clark, Ladore township; Mrs. W. L. Baldwin, Pittsburg; Chas. S. Clark, Lincoln township; Mrs. Belle C. Swope, Pittsburg; Mrs. S. L. McReynolds, Louisiana, Mo.; C. A. Clark, Chanute; James Arthur Clark, of Joplin, Mo. 
He moved to Kansas in the year 1868 and settled on a claim in Lincoln township in this county, where he resided until he moved to Erie four years ago. He was a member of the I. O. O. F. and G. A. R. He united with the Methodist Protestant church about 25 years ago. 
As a citizen he always took an active interest in public affairs, especially those pertaining to educational matters, and has held an office of trust in his community ever since he was 22 years of age.
