JOHN B. CAMPBELL

John B. Campbell was born near Edinburg, Scotland, June 19, 1832, and died Oct. 5, 1916, at his home, in this city, aged eighty-four years, three months and sixteen days. He arrived in the United States, from Europe, July 5, 1846, and settled in New York state, residing there ten years. In March 1856, he came to Kansas. He spent four or five months in Lawrence and Osawatomie during the early summer, coming to Anderson county in August of the same year. The next spring, he settled on his homestead, five miles south of town, where he resided forty-seven years. Since 1904, he has lived in Garnett, and, until the last few years, has enjoyed reasonably good health for one of his age; but during the last two and a half years, he has not been down town.
He was united in marriage with Melissa C. Smith, October 2, 1860. Two children were born to them, George L., now of Colorado Springs, Colo., and Claude V., of Leavenworth, this state. His wife died July 12, 1870. He was married to Ruth R. Hopkins October 12, 1871. Four children came to this pair, Edgar R., Chivington, Colo., Frank W., Garnett; William F., Kincaid, and Jennie P. Sweeny, now of Butte, Montana. His second wife died June 1, 1891.
March 20, 1893, he was married to Sarah Keiser, who preceded him to the grave a little more than a year ago, dying July 18, 1915.
Mr. Campbell enlisted in Company F, Eleventh Kansas cavalry, in 1861, and served to the end of the war, when he received his honorable discharge.
He had been a follower of Christ more than forty years, and had held membership with the Christian church in this city about twenty years at the time of his death. Having lived so long and so worthily, he had many friends, who are glad to extend their sympathy to the children and other relatives who were so dear to him in life.
Funeral services were held last Sunday afternoon, at the family home conducted by Rev. Ben D. Gillispie, and the body was laid away in the Garnett cemetery.
The sorrowing family have the sympathy of the community in their bereavement.
