WILLIAM H. CLARK

Besides the relatives, mentioned, there are three surviving brothers of Mr. Clark and a sister. They are D. M. Clark of Chicago, James Clark of Greeley, Colo., Henry Clark of Wyoming, and Mrs. Elizabeth Drennon of Colorado. These will probably not attend the funeral. Mr. Clark was the eldest of nine children.
The business career of Mr. Clark in Ottawa began with his legal connection with the Ottawa Indians, for many of whom he was legal advisor. He made some of the earliest entries on the property books of this county, being entries of Indian claims and sales made here while the Indians occupied this territory.
The first firm in which he was a member was Mason, Clark & Cheney, his associates being C. B. Mason and M. E. Cheney. This was of several years duration, and in 1874 he formed a partnership with F. A. Wilkerson which continued thirty years until the death of Mr. Wilkerson. He sold a half interest in the business 1 year ago to Ben F. Bowers to whom he turned over complete charge of affairs on account of his own illness.
The Clarks were members of the United Presbyterian church and Pastor S. W. Woodburn of the local church will have charge of the funeral services.
Like many another successful man of this century Mr. Clark's business career was begun immediately after the Civil War when business was difficult of organization and the country was in its reconstruction. Mr. Clark had reached his majority barely in time to become a soldier in the Civil War, having been born in Guernsey County, O., January 12, 1838. His father had been reared in Ireland and his mother was of Irish descent so William Clark was endowed with the spirit of independence that made of him a good soldier. So when he had removed to Monmouth, Ill., and was graduated from Monmouth College in the literary course and had begun the study of law there, he left his studies to join the 83d Illinois Inf. Co. F. in 1862.
His promotion to captain came in 1864 for meritorious service and he led the 16th U. S. Colored Infantry until he was mustered out of service at Nashville in 1866.
After fighting ceased Mr. Clark kept at the study of law in his quarters until mustered out and then he moved to White Cloud, Kans. He had been admitted to the bar in Nashville. He came to Ottawa in February, 1868, and had been connected with legal work as lawyer, abstracter, justice of the peace and legislator ever since until he turned over his active work to Ben F. Bowers whom he took as a partner about a year ago.
One term in the legislature, from 1873 to 1874 was his service to the state. He was postmaster in 1878 to 1880 and was elected justice of the peace, and police judge in 1881.
Mr. Clark was the eldest of nine children, one of whom, John Z. Clark, of this city is a brother. These two were for several years interested together in a book concern here, the firm of Clark Brothers. He was married December 19, 1866, to Miss Jane G. Graham of Wyoming, Wis., and they began housekeeping in White Cloud, Doniphan County, in this state.
