DWIGHT R. CHAPPELL

Dwight R. Chappell, one of the pioneers of Kansas and a resident of this vicinity since the close of the war, in which he fought in the famous Seventh Kansas "Jayhawker" regiment, died at his home, 1121 South Evergreen avenue, at 9 o'clock this morning.
The funeral services will be held from his late home at 3:30 o'clock Sunday afternoon. The sermon will be by Rev. W. W. Searcy, pastor of the First Baptist church. The pall bearers will be members of the local Grand Army of the Republic Post, of which Mr. Chappell was a charter member, and the Odd Fellows will have charge of the interment services in Elmwood cemetery.
Mr. Chappell had been quite ill for some time. The trouble was a malignant growth in the head. About a week ago he underwent an operation by which an eyeball was removed in hopes of checking the growth. The attempt failed, though and he had been unconscious most of the time since, the coma relieving him from intense suffering.
Mr. Chappell served in Company F of the famous Kansas Seventh and after the war settled on a farm just across the river from Chanute, where he remained until about two years ago, when he moved to the city.
He came from a family that was native to Otsego county, New York where he was born. His mother was the daughter of a Baptist minister, and the latter's father, and two brothers were also Baptist clergymen.
In 1849 his father took the family to West Virginia, settling at Parkersburg, but sold out there and moved to Falls Church, Fairfax county, Virginia, where they were living when the Civil War broke out.
Because of their northern birth and sympathies, they were told to leave in twenty-four hours. They left practically everything they had, went to Washington City and then on to their old home in New York.
Dwight came to Kansas and joined the army here, doing valiant service in a regiment that helped make history. When the war was over, he came to this vicinity, took a homestead and engaged successfully in farming, on the place which is now occupied by his son, Walter, and family.
He is also survived by his widow. Their son is the only child living, but they were the parents of a daughter, beside whose grave the body of the father will be laid rest. George N. Chappell 610 North Highland avenue is a brother of the dead man.
