WESLEY COLEMAN

The funeral will be held from his late home on South Broadway at 10 a.m. Friday, and interment will be made in the Goodland cemetery. Mr. Coleman has resided in Goodland for many years and was a highly esteemed citizen. About twelve years ago he suffered a partial stroke of paralysis of the right side, but, considering his disability, he was a very active man. Old age coming on apace, his arterial and cardiac circulation was<br> weakened and the poor circulation of blood was the cause of a gangrenous sore which ultimately caused his death.
Goodland Republic, Nov. 8, 1912
 Wesley Coleman was born in Metcalf county. Kentucky, November 18. 1840. His father died when he was one year old. and he was left an orphan at the age of three. His boyhood days were lived in the home of an aunt who tried to take the place of his mother. He went to Cass county. 111., in 1857 and on February 13. 1863 he was married to Sarah F. Biddlecom. They moved to Cheyenne county. Kansas in 1887, where they lived until 1898 when they came to Goodland. This has been his home until the time of his death.
Very young in life he became a Christian and united with the Presbyterian church. Later he united with the Congregational church and has remained a faithful, conscientious member of the same to the time of his death. He had no fear of death but met it as calmly and peacefully as a child meets sleep in its mother's arms.
He enlisted in the war of the Rebellion and served his country in the 68th Illinois Infantry. He became a member of the Grand Army Post here in Goodland and was faithful to his duties until the end.
About thirteen years ago he had a stroke of paralysis and has suffered constantly ever since. This terminated in his death in the evening of October 30, 1912.
He leaves a wife, a son and a daughter, eight grand-children, and three greatgrand-children to mourn his loss.
Thus has passed from among us one who was loved and esteemed by all for his kindly feelings, his honesty and uprightness of purpose, and his loyalty to the truth. Earth is poorer for his having left us, but Heaven is richer. Our loss is Heaven's gain, (contributed)
