CHARLES JAMES BUTIN

C. J. Butin, one of Wilson County's earliest settlers died at his home at 133 North Fifth street yesterday at eleven o'clock, of heart trouble.
Mr. Butin came to Kansas from Chillicothe, Iowa, where he grew up, but was born in Hocking county, Ohio, July 5th, 1843. He was the son of Abraham and Maria Butin, natives of New York and Ohio, respectively, Charles J. being the eldest of six children. He acquired his education in the public schools of Iowa, which he left to enlist in the services for the Civil War. He enlisted first in President Lincoln's call for 75,000 troops, but was unable to get in and was not accepted until August, 1861, when he joined Company D, 3rd Iowa cavalry, and after numerous skirmishes the first battle fought was on top of Pea Ridge, Arkansas.
Here his company lost ten men in less than five minutes, in a hand-to-hand encounter and he, with two others was taken prisoner, being kept at Van Buren, Arkansas, about two months and then exchanged. He returned to his command at Springfield, Mo., from which point he accompanied Curtis' army to Helena, fighting all the way down and the chief battle being that of Cotton Plant. The 3rd Iowa participated in the engagements around Vicksburg. He was honorably discharged after serving his three years in the south, and later on entered the government service at Ft. McPherson, Nebr., as chief quartermaster's clerk. He resigned after a year in this service and returned and engaged in the retail clothing and grocery business in Chillicothe. He remained there until 1871 when he sought Kansas and Wilson county, and opened a drug store in Fredonia at a spot where the Wilson County Bank now stands, in partnership with his brother, G. E. Butin , on September 15, 1871.
The store at this location burned out and the Butin Brothers moved their store to a building where the Kisor store now stands, and later to a building now occupied by the West Side Meat Market. Later Charles E. and Frank Butn became owners of the store, at Mr. Butin's retirement about ten years ago, and the store was moved to the Pinney building, south side of the square, where the Brothers celebrated their 50th anniversary last month.
Mr. Butn was a staunch republican, serving four years in the state legislature in 1885-1887 and was seven year on the state board of pharmacy. He was also on the city council many years.
His wife died on July 5, 1919 and since that time his sister. Miss Vina Butin, has made her home with him. Mr. and Mrs. Butin had but one child, a daughter, who died in infancy.
The funeral services will be held Wednesday at ten o'clock, under the auspices of the Masonic order, conducted by the Reverend J. Ashton Davies. Burial will be made in the Fredonia cemetery.
