ROBERT CLARK

The funeral of Robt. Clark was held at the home southeast of Burlington Friday in charge of Rev. A. B. Moore and the body laid to rest at LeRoy. There was a large attendance at the funeral.
Robt. Clark was born at Lewiston, Fulton county, Ill., January 2, 1841, and died November 21, 1916, at his home five miles north of LeRoy aged 75 years, 10 months and 19 days. He grew to young manhood at the place of his birth and on August 9, 1862, he responded to the call for volunteers, enlisting in Company H, 103rd Regiment Illinois Infantry, serving two years and ten months, ten months of this time being spent in a hospital. He was married at Washburn, Ill. March 29th 1867, to Miss Catherine Wilson and to this union eight children were born, Addie Belle and Minnie May who died when quite young; Charles D. of LaHarpe, Kans., Fred J. of Hereford, Texas; Mabel M. Sheley of Hopkins, Mo.; Carrie L. who died in infancy; Allie S. Cunningham, and Robert L. of LeRoy, Kansas.
For ten years after his marriage he lived at Washburn, Ill. when he moved to Taylor county, Iowa, where he lived for tweny-one years, coming to Coffey county Kansas in 1897, locating in the Pleasant Hill neighborhood seven miles southeast of Burlington, where he lived until a few years ago when he was compelled to retire from active business on account of ill health.
Mr. Clark was converted and united with the Presbyterian church at Washburn, Ill., in 1869 and on coming to Kansas he placed his membership with the M. E. church, of which he remained an earnest and consistent member until his death.
He suffered much during his last sickness, which was of about eight months duration, but he was patient and uncomplaining through it all and welcomed death as a final relief. Mr. Clark was a good citizen, kind and indulgent to his family and gave freely of his means and influence to whatever was for the betterment of the community. Besides his family and 8 grandchildren and a host of friends he leaves two sisters to mourne his loss Mrs. Elizabeth Lloyd, Murietta, Calif. and Mrs. Mary Willison, Creston, Ia.
