ROBERT M. CONGER

R. M. Conger was born in McLean Co., Ill., May 14, 1843. He enlisted in the Civil War and served three years in the 94th and 37th Illinois Infantry.
Soon after his discharge from the army he was married to Melisa A. Benson on Dec. 5th 1866. To this union six children were born, all of whom are living and were with their mother at the bedside of their father when he passed into the great beyond.
Those who survive him are his wife, three sons and three daughters, I. D. Conger of Sharpe; Mrs. J. F. Grenpan and Miss Lulu Conger of Waverly; Mrs. C. M. Chrisman, Kirk, Colorado; L. B. and Dr. K. W. Conger, Bristow, Oklahoma, and one sister, Mrs. J. M. Benson, Iola, Kansas.
In early life he united with the Christian church. He was of cheerful disposition and seemed to enjoy meeting with his friends, having a hearty hand grasp and always cheery words and a good laugh. His life was an open book and he lived a clean christian life to the end, and one of his desires was to meet his mother the first one in heaven.
He moved from Illinois to Morris county, Kansas, in 1878, where he lived until 1892 when he moved to Coffey county and remained until 1901 from there he moved to Bristow, Oklahoma, and remained there until 1910, when he moved to Colorado, but not regaining his health as he expected returned to Waverly where he passed the last few months of his life.
He was a member of the I. O. O. F., Triple Tie and the G. A. R., and held a prominent state office in order when in Oklahoma.
He held many prominent offices of trust in his lifetime and was one of four delegates chosen to carry the flag bearing the 46th star to float over Old Liberty Bell in Philadelphia, July 4th 1908.
He was a kind and loving husband and father and bore his afflictions bravely.
"T'is hard to see loved ones pass to rest; the ones we hold so dear. But God in his wisdom knows the best; and has promises for ones left here. Then why should we mourn for the ones gone before, when we feel they are home in heaven, for we soon shall join them on the other shore, if we live to Gods promises given.'
His body was laid to rest in the Waverly City cemetery, Wednesday, after funeral services conducted at the family home Wednesday morning, at 11 o'clock, in the presence of the family and many friends.
