JOSEPH CONNERY

Again the winged messenger has come into our midst and taken from our city the spirit of Joseph Connery who first saw the light of day at Lafayette Co., Wisconsin, Oct. 1, 1839, and who was transferred from the church Militant to the church Triumphant on Dec. 23, 1910, after having lived to the age of 71 years, 2 months and 22 days. On June 23, 1885, he was united in marriage to Miss Amanda J. Chapman by the Rev. J. E. Webster pastor of the M. E. church at Gration, Wisconsin. At this place they lived for two years coming to Toronto in Oct., 23 years ago where they have since lived with the exception of 2 years residence in Quincy, Kansas. The deceased was a blacksmith by trade, which profession he always followed as long as he was able to work. When the call came for men to go to the front in the dark days of 61-65 he at once responded and enlisted in Co. I 3rd Mo. Cavalry where he remained until the close after having been in several heavy battles and received the honorable discharge. He always maintained a membership in the G. A. R. Post and was a charter member of his former home Post at Gration, Wisconsin. Again on the 8th of July 1910, when God was calling for men, true hearted and loyal to meet the foes of sin, Joseph Connery responded, giving himself; soul and body in beautiful consecretion; and at once united with the Methodist Episcopal Church in which faith he lived the rest of his life.
His funeral services were held at the M. E. church on Monday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock by the Rev. Clymer, Hafner and Hageman. The interment took place in the east Toronto cemetery where the G. A. R. had charge of the burial services. The Deceased had been afflicated for more than a year by the dreaded cancer which steadily developed, resulting in his death. The last months of his life where sweet and patient. He endured pain without a murmur and in his trust in God became so beautiful and real and when his faith was on the Transfiguration the Lord sent his chariot and took him home.
"God be with you till we meet again,
