PETER MARION CARNINE

Peter Marion Carnine died at his home, 1102 Congress Street, yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock, of hardening of the arteries. Mr. Carnine had been in failing health for a year or more, and for the past few months his condition was critical. He was conscious until yesterday morning, and death came while he was asleep.
Mr. Carnine was born in Johnson County, Indiana, March 4, 1835. He came to Kansas in 1857 and took a claim six miles north of Iola. He enlisted for service in the Civil War, in Company H, 9th Cavalry, in the fall of 1862, he was married to Miss Mary Susan Luyster, and in 1890 the Carnines moved to Emporia. Mr. Carnine was a charter member of the oldest Presbyterian Church in Southeastern Kansas, of Carlyle, and was an elder of that church until they left Carlyle.
Mr. Carnine united with the church when a young man, and lived every day the faith he professed. No man was more faithful to his church than he, no man more loyal to his friends, and his eight sons and daughters, fine, true men and women, attest to his devotion to his family, and to the fulfillment of his family, and to the fulfillment of his every obligation to them. The Carnine golden wedding celebration in 1912, was one of much joy and satisfaction to Mr. and Mrs. Carnine, when their children and grandchildren, their old friends and neighbors, came to rejoice with them. Mr. and Mrs. Carnine retained in their old age a remarkable degree of health and attended regularly to their duties in their home and in the community. For a year or more Mr. Carnine had been kept at home by failing health, and Mrs. Carnine was his constant companion.
Mr. Carnine is survived by Mrs. Carnine and their eight children, Mrs. E. W. Beeson, of Emporia; William Carnine, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Vermillion; Mrs. Hattie Gordon, Ordway, Colo.; John Carnine, in Y. M. C. A. work at Fort Lawton, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Dell Buckingham, Yuba City, Calif.; Harry Carnine, of Burlingame; Charles Carnine, of Emporia; George E. Carnine, of Arco, Iowa; three sisters, Mrs. Joseph Handley, Mrs. Sarah Bergen and Mrs. Rachel Heln, all of Frankland, Ind., and one brother, John Carnine of Seattle, and seventeen grandchildren.
Funeral services will be held tomorrow afternoon at 3 o'clock at the Carnine home, 1102 Congress Street. Dr. R. B. A. McBride, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, of which Mr. Carnine, was a member, assisted by Dr. W. C. Templeton, of Winfield, will conduct the services, and interment will be made in Maplewood Cemetery, N. B. Haynes, S. Altman and L. P. Munson, of the eldership of the First Presbyterian Church, and J. H. Ray, Charles Harris and J. R. B. Edwards, of the Grand Army, will be the pall-bearers. Mrs. J. M. Parrington, Mrs. John Hoffer, E. N. Evans and E. E. Anderson will have charge of the music.
