JAMES C. CARPENTER

February 23, 1852, he and his partner, Herman Hodges, started their long and perilous journey with a team of French ponies to a light covered wagon, with provisions, and altogether little money for such an undertaking. Many thrilling experiences with Indians and privations were experienced. On June 28, 1852, he was in Salt Lake City, where he saw Brigham Young going to church with his seven wives. July 13 he continued the journey, arriving in Haugtown, Calif., Aug. 7, 1852.
Mr. Carpenter spent about two years in gold digging and on Aug. 1, 1854, started for home board the U. S. mail steamer, the John L. Stevens, arriving at Panama, he made the trip across the isthmus about where the Panama canal is now located, the means of conveyance being pack mules, walking and railroad. At Obispo he took the train for Aspinwall, where he stopped at the American house, then run by our former townsman, D. C. Webb. At Aspinwall he took the steamer Geo. Laws for New York, and from there went to his father's farm near Battle Creek, Mich.
Later he moved to Indianola, Ia., where he was married to Miss Elizabeth Fenner, Sept. 2, 1858. To this union four children were born, two of whom died in infancy; Jesse S. (editor of the Republican at time of his death) died June 30, 1901, and Mrs. C. M. Loy, who now lives in Council Grove.
In 1862 Mr. Carpenter enlisted in Company C, 39th Iowa Infantry, and was with Sherman on his march to the sea, and on the grand review at Washington, D. C. was discharged, arriving home June 16, 1865. In 1870 he with his family moved to Morris county, where he had since resided.
He was converted in a meeting conducted by Rev. J. A. Coe of the M. E. church, afterwards joining the Congregational church, under the ministration of his beloved comrade, Rev. Armsby, and until health interfered, attended services.
His manly, Christian life was an index to his character, and the esteem of his many friends and neighbors bespeaks the standing he so justly deserved. He died Oct. 15, 1912, aged 79 years, 10 months and 4 days.
Funeral services were held from the home in East Council Grove, Oct. 17, 1912, at 2:30 p. m., conducted by Rev. Blackledge, whose father was in the same corps during the war with Mr. Carpenter, then making them close friends for a number of years. Rev. Ray, one of Mr. Carpenter's nearest neighbors and who frequently called and gave much cheer and comfort, assisted in the services. At his request full military burial services were held at the cemetery.
