HUGH SYM CAMPBELL

Died, at his residence in this city, Friday morning, August 8, 1890, Col. H. S. Campbell, aged 61 years. 
When the war of the rebellion first began, Col. H. S. Campbell was one of the first to offer his services in behalf of the Union. He enlisted as a Captain in the 83d Penn. Volunteers, and with his regiment joined the Army of the Potomac. He participated in the seven day's battles in front of Richmond, and for conspicuous gallantry at the battle of Malvern Hill, was promoted Lieutenant Colonel of his regiment. At the second battle of Bull Run he commanded the regiment, and while leading it in a charge against the enemy, received a gun shot wound in the knee, which compelled him, much against his will, to leave the service. 
Col. Campbell was a soldier without fear; and his presence of mind and coolness in the hour of danger made him an excellent officer, and there is no doubt, with his knowledge of military and his natural ability to command men, had he escaped injury, he would have worn the stars of a General instead of the eagle of a Colonel long before the war was over. 
Col. Campbell was a Scotchman, born in Glasgow in 1829, and possessed all the sturdy, good qualities of his race, being strong in his attachments and zealous for the cause for which he took up arms. He came to America in 1850, locating in northwestern Pennsylvania, and for nearly a quarter of a century he has been an honored resident of this city. He never lost faith in the future of Paola. He was a clear-beaded business man and foresaw distinctly the changes which came to build up our city, and when others doubted and lost faith and wanted to sell, Col. Campbell was always ready to purchase, and in this way became a large owner of property in this city, all of which paid him handsomely, vindicating his good judgment. 
For many years he has been confined to his home and has been a great sufferer from rheumatism, resulting no doubt from his wounds and exposure during his army life. In all the years of his agony and suffering he never complained or murmured. 
He died as he lived, a brave and true soldier, an honored citizen of the republic he sacrificed so much to save and which he loved so well. 
He was buried Sunday afternoon in the Paola cemetery, with military honors, by McCaslin Post, G. A. R., and Co. C, K. N. G. Rev. C. N. Cate conducted the services at the residence, and spoke very fittingly of the Colonel's gallantry as a soldier and his services as a citizen. The remains were followed to the grave by a very large procession of his old friends and neighbors, and laid to rest by his comrades of McCaslin Post, with a parting salute of three rounds by a detail from Co. C. 
To the grief-stricken widow and family, bereft of a husband and father, the loss is one irreparable, and many friends sympathize with them. To the community the loss is a great one, as Col. Campbell was always a leading spirit in all enterprises of public importance, and his death removes another familiar landmark that bound the past events in the history of our city to the present. William G. Cutler's History of the State of Kansas
